---
title: "TLS 1.3 support in .NET"
date: 2019-02-01
tags: [TLS, System.Net]
excerpt: "TLS 1.3 in .NET"
---

## TLS 1.3 Overview

TLS 1.3 is the most recent version of Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol. Here is my summarized understandings about its new features (they are not meant to be comprehensive):
- 0-RTT (resumption) -> vulnerable to the replay attack.
- Delay authentication.
- Deprecate old cypher suites.

For this post, I want to highlight the behavior difference that .NET developers should aware of, and our (networking team) thinking process towards this change.

## Behavior change details

There are 3 scenarios to consider:
1. If [`SystemDefaultTlsVersions`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/network-programming/tls) is ON then there is no behavior change. OS will choose which TLS version to communicate, and .NET layer will pick it up. 
2. If `SystemDefaultTlsVersions` is OFF (via AppContext) && SchUseStrongCrypto is ON --> TLS 1.0/1.1/1.2 and 1.3 become available and 1.3 is the default. 
    - If both client and server understand 1.3 then TLS 1.3 will be chose for communication. 
    - Of course, if a specific TLS communication protocol was specified explicitly then it will be picked instead of latest default. 
3. If SystemDefaultTlsVersions is OFF && SchUseStrongCrypto if OFF -- no behavior change: TLS 1.0 or SSL3 will be picked.


- We debated that UseStrongCrypto will include TLS 1.3 and in future if there are new protocols then we will need to still make a change. 
- We will not be removing any old protocol like 1.0 etc. covered under SchUseStrongCrypto.  
- There is a concern on the breaking nature of the fix since we only SchUseStrongCrypto after TLS 1.2 was introduced -- so scenario #2 introduces a behavior change as TLS 1.3 will now become the default.

- There isn't a way for folks to default out of TLS 1.3 to  say 1.2, without explicitly specifying 1.3 in their code, if TLS 1.3 becomes breaking for any reason. 

## References:

1. [Transport Layer Security (TLS) best practices with the .NET Framework](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/network-programming/tls) - MSDN
